.\" emu-dspmgr man page
.de Id
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Id: emu-dspmgr.1,v 1.4 2002/01/19 06:07:58 dbertrand Exp $
.ds = \-\^\-
.de Sp
.if t .sp .3
.if n .sp
..
.TH EMU-DSPMGR 1 "25 June 2001"  "emu10k1-tools" "Emu10k1 Users Manual"
.ta 3n
.SH NAME
emu-dspmgr \- dsp patch loader and manager for emu10k1 based soundcards
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emu-dspmgr 
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B emu-dspmgr 
is used to load/unload dsp patches to/from the emu10k1 processor
present in soundcards such as the Creative Labs SBLive!.
.B emu-dspmgr
is also used to control the internal routing of signals
(for example digital CD input to rear speakers). Some dsp patches 
will have variable settings used to control their functioning
(control gprs)
which can also be modified using
.B emu-dspmgr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 3
\fB\-a\fP\fIroute\fP  or  \fB\*=add=\fP\fIroute\fP
Adds a signal route.
.I route
is given in the form
.I input:output
(a list of valid inputs can be obtained with
.BR -i
and outputs with 
.BR -o ).
.TP
\fB\-c\fP\fIcontrol\fP  or  \fB\*=control=\fP\fIcontrol\fP
Selects
.I control
gpr to be modified (you also need to set the
.BR -p
option). When used with no arguments prints a list
of the available control gprs. 

When this option is used preceding a 
.B -v 
(create a route with volume) option, the route's volume control
will use the name specified by the 
.B -c 
option.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP\fIfile\fP  or  \fB\*==dsp_device=\fP\fIfile\fP
Use an alternate device than /dev/dsp.
.TP

.TP
\fB\-d\fP  or  \fB\*=debug\fP
Enables debug output. A detailed list of loaded dsp patches will
be printed. 
.TP
\fB\-f\fP\fIfile\fP  or  \fB\*=filestart=\fP\fIfile\fP
Loads a '.bin' dsp patch from
.I file.
It must be preceeded by
.B -l
to indicate the line where to attach the dsp patch. 

The patch will have a name specified inside the .bin file, you can rename it to
something else by using the
.B -p
option.
this will add the patch before any other already loaded patches in the
signal chain.

.TP
\fB\-F\fP\fIfile\fP  or  \fB\*=fileend=\fP\fIfile\fP
Same as 
.B -f
but adds the file to the end of a signal chain


.TP
\fB\-i\fP  or  \fB\*=inputs\fP
List the available inputs.

.TP
\fB\-l\fP\fIline\fP  or  \fB\*=line=\fP\fIline\fP
Selects the
.I line
where to attach the dsp patch.
.I line
is one of the valid inputs or outputs.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP\fIelement\fP  or  \fB\*==mixer=\fP\fIelement\fP
Map a control GPR to an OSS mixer element. If no element is specified,
a full listing is provided. The option must be preceeded with a patch (-p) and
control GPR (-c)  
.TP
\fB\-M\fP\fIfile\fP  or  \fB\*==mixer_device=\fP\fIfile\fP
Use an alternate mixer than /dev/mixer.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP  or  \fB\*=outputs\fP
List the available output.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP\fIpatch\fP  or  \fB\*=patch=\fP\fIpatch\fP

When used with the
.B -s
(set control GPR), or
.B -m
(map GPR to OSS mixer control)
options, this 
selects the dsp
.I patch 
to be modified.

When used with the
.B -f
(load patch) option, renames the loaded patch to
.Ipatch
.TP
\fB\-r\fP\fIroute\fP  or  \fB\*=remove=\fP\fIroute\fP
Removes a signal route.
.I route
is given in the form
.I input:output
(a list of valid inputs can be obtained with
.BR -i
and outputs with
.BR -o ).
This option
when used with no arguments prints a list of current
signal routes.

(note, if the route is the only route tied to
an input/output line and that line has a patch attached, remove the
patch first, see -z for a quick way to remove everything).
.TP
\fB\-s\fP\fIvalue\fP  or  \fB\*=set=\fP\fIvalue\fP
Sets the
.I value
of a control gpr. This option must be preceeded by
the
.B -c
and
.B -p
options
(with a valid patch and control gpr names)
to select the control gpr to be modified.
.I value
is a signed 32 bit quantity in hexadecimal. 
.TP
\fB\-u\fP\fIprog\fP  or  \fB\*=unload=\fP\fIprog\fP
Unloads a dsp patch. This option when used without arguments
lists all the loaded patches.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP\fIroute\fP  or  \fB\*=volume=\fP\fIroute\fP
Adds a signal route with volume control.
.I route
is given in the form
.I input:output
(a list of valid inputs can be obtained with
.BR -i
and outputs with
.BR -o ).

The option also acts as the 
.B -p
and 
.B -c
options at the same time, so, for example, one can create a route with
volume and map it to an OSS mixer control in a single command.
.TP
\fB\-z\fP or  \fB\*=clear\fP
removes all routes and unloads all dsp microcode programs

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Adding a signal route connecting "Pcm L" to "Rear L":
.PP
.B emu-dspmgr -a"Pcm L:Rear L"
.PP
Loading the patch effect.bin and placing it in the "Pcm L" line:
.PP
.B emu-dspmgr -l"Pcm L" -feffect.bin
.PP
Create a route with volume control a make it controlable by the OSS'
pcm mixer control:
.PP
.B emu-dspmgr -v"Pcm L:Rear L" -mpcm_l
.PP
Changing a control gpr value of the "Routing" patch:
.PP
.B emu-dspmgr -p"Routing" -c"Vol Pcm L:Rear L" -sffffff
.PP
Load the tone control patch, rename them as "bass-treble"
and map the bass and treble control gprs to mixer elements in one
command:
.PP
.B emu-dspmgr -p"bass-treble" -l"Pcm L" -ftone.bin -cbass -mbass -ctreble -mtreble
.PP
For an example of a working script, see emu-script distributed with
the driver source in utils/mixer.

.SH BUGS
.PP
Not really a bug, but: location matters. Information to be used by 
\'actions\' (-a, -f, m, -r, -s, and -u) should appear before these
actions on the command line, follow order in the examples above. 
.PP
"Help, route XYZ is unremovable!" --> make sure no patches are tied
to either the input or output of the route \fBand\fP this route is the
only route attached to that input or output.
.PP
"Help, the digital out on my SBLive 5.1 doesn't work" --> use
"emu-config -d" to toggle it into digital mode (not a bug).

.SH SEE ALSO
as10k1(1), emu-config(1), emu-script (see the script, there's no man page)

.SH COPYING
Copyright
.if t \(co
2000, 2001 Rui Sousa, Daniel Bertrand
.br
.PP
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the copyright holders instead of in
the original English.
.SH AUTHORS
Rui Sousa, Daniel Bertrand
